Hello, dear listener and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast that's using fully 21% of our brain potential, which is about 17% more than Johnny Byrne some weeks.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Brendan.
I'm James.
Oh, James.
And I'm the reason Charles talks to Camilla instead of his house plants for this reason.
Also, roundup glycophate.
Weed and who ordered the pepperoni?
Did I get the note?
You haven't got any of mine.
Darn it.
You're close at one point.
So we are watching season one, episode 22 of Space 1999, which is called The Troubled Spirit.
It is, as I alluded to earlier by Johnny Bird, and it's directed by our old friend Ray Austin.
Yes, who is pretty damn great, can I say?
Yeah, yeah, terrific.
And I think that there's no reason to delay going in.
What do you think?
As usual, it's 50 languid minutes of not very much happening, which we may well struggle to fill with content.
There's a lot of taut wool jersey.
I'm very happy about.
So we are going to get going in a moment.
I'm going to tell you a keyword and that keyword is polymastia.
And the next time I say that word.
I want Richard and the listener at home to press the button.
So here goes polymastia.
I'm guessing that's something you not do if you grind your teeth.
Not quite.
Can we talk about Jim Sullivan?
is incredible.
The 39 inches.
Jim Sullivan was 6 foot five.
He was playing in the Tom Jones band at this time.
He'd backed Shirley Bassie on Bond songs.
He's everything.
He was a mate of, sorry, of George Harrison's.
Wow.
And they learned sitter together.
This is Jim's own sitar.
Yeah.
It's called a raga.
It's just a rift thing.
He composed it for this show and people still write about this.
I was looking at the music press online and you look up Jim Sullivan.
This honestly just does feel like everyone after a Victor party, doesn't it?
Victor's asleep, he's crashed out.
Isn't it lovely that that nice young man is cuddling his mummy?
But everyone else are these hot models.
So this is the 1970s, obviously.
It is the 1970s.
And did you notice we're on J.K. Rolling alert?
Because that's the ostensible threat.
I would also like to say in the original script, it's Victor conducting a string quartet and isn't this better?
Oh, and like, I...
No, hang on.
Did you know Victor is set up as a violin player?
And in the episode we watched previously, you mentioned it.
And they get in the back row because they're annoying.
Martin looks utterly not transfixed.
I think this is maybe the best part of the episode because there's no dialogue.
It is entirely... if we don't have to listen to them talking.
But it's beautifully done.
This was entirely Ray Austin's idea.
It isn't in the script, right?
The slowness of it.
And then going into the old nuclear reactors.
Hang on, but why do you need massive front loading laundromats in the hunt?
If the cops come around, see what you're growing in the hydroponics.
Okay, fair enough.
No, you know what this reminds me of?
leisure hive.
Yeah, yeah, yeah Long languorous shot sort of down the beach.
Like, you're just sort of, like, no dialogue.
Beautiful music, like incredible music.
The atmosphere in that scene is just amazing.
Actually, you can believe that the actors are enjoying themselves.
Yes. getting lost in the music.
And I think those are the tubes that um, not tubes.
Those are the terrariums that Helena gets stuck in.
Yes, I thought I recognised them.
Yeah, yeah.
The same ones that Brendan has all his Doctor Who, actually.
They did have to amortise the budget.
So here we have.
Now, you know who this is, don't you?
So this is Giancarlo potty of the week.
Oh my god, that's beautiful.
Yes. that you all want to call it on their chair.
Big star of the most popular soap in Italy in the year before.
He was also originally Alfonso, the eagle main pilot.
And here's the one, Lando.
I'm not having any of that.
He's too beautiful.
Oh, really?
He's so hot.
That is the original Alan Carter, right there?
And because that was part of the funding deal with RAI.
They were going to provide 2 Italian leads, the other one being Sandra, I think Sapatini, who becomes Sandra Benish.
Okay.
Yeah.
But, I mean, he's, he, he is there because the, the rape thing.
Yeah, yeah.
And because in auditions with Martin Landau, according to Silver Anderson, he's the only Italian actor who was not intimidated by Landau's ego.
Which is why...
There's a scene in this episode where...
Honestly, where Dan Mateo isn't having a wank.
Like, really.
That's what it is And this is, honestly, Tremaine from the champions retirement plan.
I'm going to grow a lot of weight and get some hotties around me.
I was going to say, if we, if we gave these episodes actual titles like we did with all of our other podcasts, it would be called really upsetting O face.
So, so I have...
This is also a real idea with a wind machine.
Well, I had actually thought that the way that the plants were kind of, you know, like waving around and stuff, that they were coming alive.
And then later on there is some dialogue about the fact how plants have nervous systems, which they don't.
And humans have nervous systems.
And it's a whole thing.
Transparent.
Exactly.
But I had actually thought that this would be about the plants coming alive and killing everyone, but...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I was thinking it was the man eater of Surrey Green, actually.
You know where this comes from?
Was that dude?
Every party that Johnny Byrne attended in the 1970s.
Oh, that is still the best shot for me.
How many children destroyed a dinky eagle by doing that in the sand pit?
Also, watch carefully because there's shots in this that didn't make it to the episode.
Ah...
Yeah, like explaining what his device actually does.
But when we get there, I have an opinion of, I think, why they cut out that explanation.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yes, Scubity?
Did they cut out the only explanation of what's going on in the entire episode?
Yes.
Because, I mean, this is part of the, this is, you know, like the Ian McShane episode where someone gets possessed by a mysterious thing and then they set themselves on fire and then it ends.
There is a little moment at the end of the end, McShane episode where we think is this the way stars get born, which is ludicrous, but also kind of mystical and terribly interesting.
This episode ends with them going, life and death, eh?
They're complicated.
Who knows what's happening?
You know, like, it's really an episode about nothing.
I'm sorry, is this at the point to mention we did invite Nick Tate to join the podcast?
And he's politely disdained to comment.
So we can say whenever we like about him here.
Is that the 1st time?
He's great.
We want him on.
Wow.
How many minutes are we in?
and that's the 1st dialogue of the episode.
Yeah, no, that's great.
Isn't that true?
that really works.
Yeah.
And I do also think that that long opening tracking does owe to Italian horror cinema.
Okay.
You know, Dario Argento, that sort of thing.
Very correct, very good because Ray Austin was a thinniest.
He was a film buff.
Yeah, they all were.
Sylvia was, you know, it was Sylvia who pushed for Ray too.
Hello, to be in this.
Of course, with the lovely Hillary Dwyer, who's in the prisoner.
When are we doing the prisoner podcast?
We're doing it now.
She is ludicrously posh, isn't she?
She's incredible.
It was all quite scientific.
I just love the way later on that she gets very emotionally, you know, integral to the to the role into the episode.
We see this as being slow because we're children of this generation, Nathan and I were discussing it earlier.
It isn't.
It's actually just truthful and analogue. how people behave.
And I love that not so hotty in the back with the Kenny Everett beard and the very high forehead just keeps getting left out of Victor's parties.
Yeah, he knows what he did.
And this is where this is what fuels Victor's parties. and it's a poor old bloke.
Okay.
So we've done podcasts on the champions on Bondfinger.
He was, of course, the commander of...
But he had a really hot Captain Haddock beard in a wig.
I mean, I don't recognise him when he's dressed up as Mr. Granger from my...
Yeah, he really is.
Oh my god.
Oh, loss of water for Giancarlo?
That's the cold tap run.
And here she is looking not exactly startled, but Dewey.
She is definitely dewy, but look at this Italian hottie that she's sitting in front of.
Well, did you see the lump under his gown?
Well, hello.
Friend of the podcast, Darren.
A colleague who actually has her hair.
Oh really?
Call her Lego hair, but fortunately no one knows who we're talking about.
But there are, but it's coming back.
The look is back.
Babs, you know, I was wearing it last week.
So this incredibly weird hippie shit that's happening here.
Incredible.
That's why they're all moving so slowly.
Yeah.
They're absolutely munted on what we've been growing in the hydroponics area.
Tyre Hydroponics Bay is turned over to pot.
It is entire.
And now the freak.
Do you survive on a pumice rock?
Yes.
But, I mean, that is, I mean, this is incredibly 70s, isn't that?
Because it starts with the sitar concert.
And the green liner.
And we're doing Ouija boards.
We're smoking a bunch of weed.
Did we mention his 6 foot 5 and entirely in proportion?
It's the 1st it's the 1st man bun concert we've had on space.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So I was saying his tripod.
Yeah, it's wonderful.
He's so talented But the music we can't have him on the podcast.
I mean, so did Giancarlo, I'm afraid.
Every bloody body.
God damn it.
Giancarlo died at our age exactly.
Yeah, yeah.
Because that's what happens when you have too much fun kids.
He's not unattractive.
He actually has the same head, the Dennis Fisher, Tom Baker figure.
Oh my god, he really does.
He's beautiful.
Like those eyes as well.
Yeah, and I think he's stunning.
Have you noticed it's the same exact colour?
Do you think?
Space 1999 figure that was refused.
And so they repurposes adoption.
They did do Victor and Babs and Marty.
So why not?
And why not?
Because they were all sculpted before the series ran.
So he was cast until the last minute.
He just said, oh, it's okay.
I have series in E-Tide, year back home.
I don't care.
I'll say you're a big fat dump bottom, Mr. Lander.
He didn't care, and he did stay on, and then he said, actually, I've got another series, and it went for a longer time.
It was the soap opera.
And to be honest, he was already too popular.
Right.
And also, I don't think Barbara's disappointed that he's in this episode.
Oh, no, look, she's really into it.
Oh my god, you're kind of like John, but hot.
Not really at all, like, John.
Killer comes up and grabs the sort of get off in.
This is why they got your eyes out.
Oh, many.
Actually, when did they divorce it?
Well, some years later, it wasn't.
They had an estranged marriage, Julius.
Yeah, as Juliet said, they weren't really together.
And from immediately after season 2 of Space 19s.
We shall discuss this next year.
Yeah, because it's not that far bloody away.
Is he the prettiest thing to ever be on this year?
Oh, he's stunning.
Sorry, unbelievable.
Aside from dictate.
Yeah, we love me.
Come on, get on the podcast, Nick.
We love you.
I love Nick Tape, but no.
Sorry.
Nick, get some extra points for the hairy back, I have to say, just putting it out there.
You know what?
It depends if you like blondes or dark hair.
Yeah, gentlemen prefer blondes.
It's been said.
I'm not...
Just to actually come back to the reason we're all sitting.
I find that the character of Don Mateo, for me, and I don't remember this episode very well except for the sound was so beautiful.
Yeah.
But, I'm honest, we went 8 or nine.
But I find that the actor, so Giancarlo, Giancarlo Prete, his stillness is quite mesmerising.
He's like one of those actors. he doesn't I don't know.
I haven't read enough about him, but he's one of those people who's very beautiful, but doesn't use that.
He's not the Henry Cavell of this podcast.
So he's not performing off his through his face.
He is actually, but the, don't you find?
The stillness is perfect for this.
He's incredible.
And, you know, there's a bunch of, there are a bunch of episodes of Space 1999 that rely on a guest character whom we've never met before, almost certainly being kind of possessed by some kind of alien entity.
Like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
He's the best one.
I think this is mostly a dumb episode, but he's incredible.
It's a slow, you said Argente.
It's simply the, I thought I think it too.
I don't think so.
It's one of the 5 most popular voted episodes.
It's beautifully made.
I think it is beautifully made. has literally nothing at all to say.
Like it's not about anything, but it's stunning.
It's about the 70s.
How we all smoke lots of weed. and male violence against women.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But what's interesting about it?
It happens.
You know, like, like that's really it.
I do think, though, and I have been critical about, you know, making stories about guest cast members, I think this is the 1st one that really works because he's got his own specialism.
I mean, I think Ian McShane's episode really early on.
I think it shines, force of life, really.
But, you know, it's kind of like Ian McShane's character could have easily been Paul.
No one else has expressed a huge interest in plants.
So it has to be someone here.
And it's believable that, like, he's not really a main character because he's off in his laboratory doing all these...
The episode has nothing to do with plans.
Like we've now finished the talk about...
Yeah, but that's the springboard.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And at the same time, I can't, you know, although although it's all bobbins.
His his basic logic is we need to survive, in which case we need higher plant.
We stuck on this.
We stuck on this rock, we have, you know, 26 episodes of the sea of the Simpsons on planks, and we're going to eat a lot of weed.
We've got issues two, five, and 7 of gardening choice.
But it's kind of like we need higher plant yields.
It's kind of weird that he goes, he kind of goes, what if the plants decide not to grow.
That's kind of weird.
Because they have nervous systems and they're going on strike.
No, no, no.
This is where it gets prophetically good, isn't it?
Don't forget horror in the 70s was just like, this was pretty much as rough as it got on TV.
I think this is terrifying.
And I think that this is like there's a real nastiness to this episode, which I do appreciate.
Barbara complained that her eyes dried out from the wind machine.
Yeah, I can see.
Look at her reaction.
The thing that's truly terrifying is that they put such an attractive man in that bloody makeup.
Yeah, yeah, like, that's just a fucking crime.
Australian Tony Allen in the Kenny Everett beard.
He's a line.
And sucking it in.
We're all very grateful for your presence, Tony. no one's as pretty as Bob.
No, no.
I'm still watching that moustache in every scene.
Bob.
And Marty's just giving a look back to say you're out of this shot, you bitches.
I did actually recently watch a YouTube video, which was some, I think it was top, top, top 5 episodes of Space 1999, and Wargame was number one, and they're, and they're like, and, you know, if the atmosphere isn't enough for you.
You get to hear, you get to hear Barbara Bain shouting, Bob, Bob. he goes out the window.
Have you noticed how often Martin puts his hand in front of Hottie McTottie's face?
He's completely blocking every shot of him. cow.
He's the turtle.
He's the...
Yeah, he's the turtle.
Mark Strickson of this podcast.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Also, everything is on J.K. Rowling alert for this.
Everything's very prescient.
It's very prescient.
Very prescient.
Barbara is gorgeous in this.
Is that the shot?
Because she looks quite star.
No, it's not the shot.
It isn't the shot.
There are more startling faces available.
There are all the leads.
Sorry, all the leads have the same limpid blue eyes.
Yeah, yeah.
Even Kano.
David.
They've got a job boss on those contact lenses.
And here's Victor just giving gravitas. so gently and tightly.
And so this wave pattern, because essentially we just land on as a ghost, right?
McGuffin, this is what it's based on.
And just for the, you know, for those of our gentle listeners who actually are interested in these things, and it's more than you think.
It's all based on Cleave Baxter's 1966 experiments.
The reason I'm interested is what is the link between this episode and Linda Carter's career?
Oh, under my no?
You know, don't you?
Underpants?
And that's the...
That should have been...
No, but this bloke, Cleve.
And you know the whole thing of plants have feelings, plants talk.
It's from this 1966 study.
He used a frickin' lie detector on plants.
Oh, yes, I read about this.
And then they shredded the plants and they used the light detector on the shredded plants and it was still the same.
So bollocks.
There was a whole thing in the 70s about that.
There's also an episode of The Good Life that deals with these.
Yeah, yeah.
It was a big, big deal.
It was like saying we only use 10% of our brain.
Bollocks.
We use all of it.
Yeah, yeah.
Just in little bits and pieces.
Oh, unless you vote Margot. you using sort of 5 to 6%.
And then we've just lost 25%.
I don't care.
There's lots of red sleeves. you'll be happy What was I going to say?
But the inventor of the lie detector, William Charles Mawson, whatever, who was brought up by women, it's a really interesting story in this huge house.
Okay, just family.
Just wait one sec.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Look at under the right nipple is a 3rd nipple.
Hence polymastia.
He literally has a 3rd nipper. one in 500 people have it.
Roger Moss.
There already is under there.
There is a 3rd nipple under his, yes.
I think that's actually...
No, it's not.
No, I think it's literally, it's one in 500 people have it.
It's not uncommon.
That is a 3rd nipple.
Yes, like nipple.
Like, he's got enough chest even with...
I was the Roger Moore proposition.
I thought it was the Jimmy Dean conundrum of he just really enjoys playing an ashtray.
I did wonder for a second.
But I didn't pause the autopsy report on Jimmy D. Oh, yeah, that he was, yes.
Anyway, sorry.
I will send you a screenshot of that, which is in my...
Keep it as a phone.
The inventor of the lie detector also created the character of Wonder Woman.
Ah, there we go.
Yes, it's a very good documentary about that.
Oh, because of the lasso.
Doctor, what's his name?
Yeah, that's also in it, but he actually invented the machine that is a lie detector.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But the lasso is also a lie detector, is it?
Yes, but he was also really into...
What's that, young James?
Well, we're chatting.
Is Dr. Marston and his Wonder Women or something?
Yeah.
Yes, that's the documentary.
The early comics are full of life-size babies being spanked in nappies.
Oh my god.
He's a kinky little bird.
We're back onto Margaret.
We're back into here.
Except that was piss.
No, no.
One of my mates said, one of my dear friends in Melbourne said, I just really hope Christie Gnome didn't get a shot of her husband with those 2 puppies because he's shot.
He's dead.
Oh, also, butt acting. know.
And during the opening tracking shot, we came past this door and it was over.
Did you come?
Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I think we all came honey.
And just in case you missed the podcast at your house.
Rapidly moving pink tube thing.
Yes, exactly.
He is very...
Not appealing, not unappealing.
He's very not unappealing.
Oh, hello.
See, all of this stuff, again, it just benefits from the fact that we can only do what we can achieve in camera most of the time.
There's some shitty post-production effects on the film later.
Only one.
Yeah, yeah.
All the appearance and whatnot, either done in camera or just with a basic...
The wob of the orange bit at the end.
The wobbly orange. the wobbly orange bit's terrible.
It's true, isn't it?
In camera, classic film technique, Hitchcock's wave.
It's wonderful.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I don't understand the wobbly orange bit either, but we'll get to that one. will get to that.
Right now we're being menaced by a shadow in the tube, which I'm sure all of us have experienced at some point or another if we're travelling to London, mostly.
Yeah, yeah.
Look, I mean, when I say this is a sort of crummy episode, I think that what it isn't is a poorly made episode.
It is not poorly.
It's beautiful.
It's a lot, Miss Ferry.
There's a lot of there's a lot of cuts.
The editing's really tough.
Yeah, yeah.
There's a lot happening.
Also, we're on Patrick Troughton's moon base set.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. really are.
It's wonderful.
It's very, aren't we?
It's very period with that crisscross thing in the background.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
All right, if we want to be super smarty pants, the Buckminster Follow Geo, DC. Yes, exactly right.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And here's Tremaine saying, oh, I'm going to be dead any second.
I do wonder if silent running may have been an influence as well.
Very good point.
Yes, probably.
I'm sure it was.
Not, you know, not that they were talking to the plants in that, but it was about saving the forests.
Yeah.
I mean, yes, yeah, yeah, yeah, of course.
And, you know, maybe that's the thing that the moon base was originally intended to do, you know, and it's never been mentioned before, but it's like a reasonable conception of why the moon base is there.
That's incredibly well done.
So well done.
Less pepperoni more.
She's been soaking in it.
She's birth-based.
All thinking the same thing.
You're not allowed to have that around me again.
Look, look, look.
His armpit here is playing the music.
Yes, yeah, because it's...
And he takes his hand out and the music stops. his armpit is playing the music.
Yes, literally, every episode gets the hotties to cross their arms.
Yeah.
It's actually, it's actually his superfluous 3rd nipple that's playing the music.
I think you might be right.
He was still down on it.
I think that's in the play. scar.
I'd like to say, we don't know that it's superfluous.
It could have full, it could have full sensation and be immensely pleasurable.
That explains his whole face in the beginning of the episode.
I volunteer to experiment.
He's dead, unfortunately, but he's actually Hyacinth bucket for this episode.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
But again, we're bringing the plants back, but that doesn't go anywhere.
Well, I mean, what's the plans thing?
I forget Seeds of Doom was still 2 years later.
And the plants thing is just the drop in temperature and the wind makes the plants move.
And the reason he's killing this guy is Warren wants to kill this guy.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But the plants aren't killing him.
Like the ghost is killing him.
Yes.
Well, and we know that because hand.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But, but I mean, there must have been some original thing.
Like, we were talking before about the fact that there's some explanation in this that's card for some reason.
Later, yeah.
And I'm going to posit a reason that it's cut when we get to where it's...
Because it's probably pouring and it makes no sense.
Is that it?
Or whatever?
Well, no.
It is actually quite a logical explanation.
And I'll let Brendan use the line because it's very 1974.
Well, I don't know if I know the exact line.
So when we get there, you can do it.
Okay, okay.
But, you know, like there is a kind of emptiness to the centre of this.
I mean, if the if we've been spending time talking about plants and how plants have nervous systems and how plants react to us and stuff like that.
And if the seance has activated the plants in some way that's caused the ghost.
Like, I don't need an explanation that makes sense.
But you just wonder why all these disparate elements are here if they're never tied together into anything.
And I do think that's the scene at the end where they just go, wow, life and death, they're super weird.
Let's go and smoke some more weed, but we don't go anywhere with any of that.
That's actually the reason for the plot.
They smoked the weed at the beginning.
They decided it would be great to fuck with the psyche.
And then explain to you the meaning of music.
Yeah, what's the music doing?
Because we had that stuff about playing music to play and stuff and are the plants reacting to the music?
Like is the music in some, some way involved and we keep hearing the music when, you know, when the, the ghost thing happens, it just feels like there's a big, a big hole at the middle of the episode where all of that is kind of linked together.
As it is, it's just a bunch of stuff that happens.
And I, something I find quite interesting in this scene is Mateo scoffs at the idea of psychic energy and it's like, what were you doing?
literally, that's your entire research project, dude.
I must admit, Nathan.
I hadn't actually thought about sort of the plants not being super relevant as a plot hole.
But I take your point.
It just didn't occur to me while I was watching.
Yeah, yeah.
But it's not a plot hole in the sense that it stops the thing making sense.
It's just like a thing that doesn't go anywhere.
And it feels like it's going to be a bigger deal than it is.
I mean, all of this makes as much sense as it needs to make to be a Space 1999 episode.
I'm not suggesting... at least in season one.
Yeah, yeah.
It needs more rubber monsters if it's going to be a good season 2 episode.
I don't think season 2 episodes necessarily make more sense.
They make less.
That was my point.
And I, the other reason, I think, that he has to be outside the command structure is so we can have these scenes where the command structure are discussing a problem.
And again, this is classic season one, space 1999, like what's supernatural, what's paranormal.
And we don't have an HR department.
No, we don't have an HA department.
So we've got Victor.
Victor's really hitting on date. today.
Look at him biting his finger.
Uh-huh.
I have to wonder if Dr. Flux on Enterprise is influenced by Victor.
Yeah, right down to the home, say.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Now you say that.
I've been watching Enterprise recently and I see it.
He's super 70s, isn't he?
Like he's got the big chain and stuff like that.
He's got 3 wives.
Three nipples, 3 nipples.
None of them superfluous.
They're all in perfect working order.
Oh, finally, Sandra gets a moment.
Yeah, she I mean, standing here.
And I copped the freaking wind machine more than you did, Babs.
And for some reason, her hair has lost volume in this scene.
Yeah, it was slightly, it was slightly beehived in the front before and now it's not.
It's running in fear.
You love Hillary Dryer.
Can't get it on the podcast.
Very dead.
From her imminent death.
She's bound...
She's bound up in Murdersville, isn't she?
She's in the scolds bridal in Murdersville.
Oh, my Lord. did I forget that?
That's why I love her from that.
She goes, blah, blah, blah. it.
She's terrific.
Arthur of the Brightons, which I don't remember.
Um, oblong box to gentlemen sharing.
I beg your pardon?
Another film.
Gentleman sharing one cup.
She later on to have a lovely career in as a producer and she died in 2020, which I don't want to start focussing on because I'm really tired of saying they're not with us anymore. doesn't isn't she gorgeous?
She is great.
Now, this scene's really telling to me and I do recall this because of all the touchy feeliness, but it's just so real about a relationship where he doesn't hold back from using his physicality and I don't mean that in a saucy way.
I mean, he's actually using his strength against her to use his, to point his argument.
It's very 70s and it's really upsetting.
And she's going to take away his bloody Telstra mobile card.
That's a 1st generation SIM card, yeah.
Like, like, like, much bigger than your actual phone. credit card size.
Yeah, yeah.
It's for like with those like phones that you had in your car.
So do you see what I mean?
There's that.
Yeah.
You're right.
There is something about male violence here.
He threatens Mr. Granger and then he threatens her and then his vengeful spirit comes and actually carries out his wishes.
And at this point, we don't know that it's him although, obviously. kind of him.
But acting.
Yeah, I know.
Look at that arse.
This is really, really upsetting.
Yeah, very realistic.
And it's very Italian horror.
It is.
Also, mummy and daddy keep farting.
Oh, that is a great shot.
I counted all her feelings.
Yeah, yeah. so good.
And that's her being killed, isn't it?
We don't see it beyond that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Look at that pretty.
That's the same impact to the spine, yeah.
Yeah.
And, I mean, also, the violence is so upsetting because I don't really recall a particular moment where we've seen actually, where we have seen that before in Space 1999.
For instance, is when Paul goes mad on the mushrooms.
Oh, God, yes.
Also a very 70s thing.
But they didn't know about.
I've got a mad endorset.
I didn't know about metering your supply anyway.
But that's the thing.
In space 1999, a man using his physicality against a woman is a sign of madness.
I think that is I think that is very progressive for the time.
Italianist.
Yeah, no, no, I wondered about that a little bit too.
Well, Roberta Rossellini's films with Ingrid Bergman.
I mean, I mean, that's there was, look, most dramas had this kind of scene in it.
Even films like Summerfield that Nick Tate was in.
It's a very typical male-female violence was like that was a big thing in the sevens.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It was considered normal.
No, I mean, that's absolutely it.
And that is why that this seems particularly 70s in its concerns.
Like all of the things that it's about are very period.
Um, and maybe that's enough.
Maybe it feels contemporary for that reason.
But, you know, like, is he punished for this?
Nothing gets said of it.
And when the ghost gets identified as a vengeful spirit, it's taking revenge against the people who are involved in the final scene in which Mateo is killed.
So why is it killing Mr. Granger and the posh lady from Murdersville?
Yeah, like you'd think it would actually want to like for those people to succeed because those people are trying to stop.
It's coming about.
Yeah, yeah.
Like, it doesn't make sense in that respect.
It is with me everywhere I go.
You're talking about his new 3rd nipple, yes?
This might be a good time to point out he is dubbed by our old friend Robert Wrighty.
Is he dumb?
He's dubbed.
According to Johnny Byrne.
Johnny Byrne said that while, you know, he thought Giancarlo was quite a good actor, he said part of the problem with bringing over the Italian actors was, well, they did have a group.
Well, no, while they did have a group of English, it, there was a language barrier, which meant you're shooting out of order, and you, the director has to communicate to the actor this is the emotion you were feeling before, and he, and Johnny said, you know, Giancarlo did a great job, but he was dubbed by Robert Wrighty.
And Johnny says, I watched Robert dubbing this and Robert is a master of his craft.
Wow, okay. would never have spotted it.
No, no, no.
I just saw that...
Sexy voice was his.
Now, I did, this was on Catacombs.
I did read over that a couple of times and there is a very slight chance that he's just talking about dubbing in general, but it specifically, he is specifically talking about Giancarlo to begin with.
So it, I'd say there's a 90% chance he's dubbed by Robert Reisey, and the voice does sound kind of familiar.
Wow.
Because, I mean, because I was thinking, like, because I was, I was thinking about the fact that he was clearly, you know, not a native English speaker and stuff and that there were mispronunciations and stuff, I was super interested that the girlfriend was called Laura, and he does pronounce that correctly, even though in Italian, that's Laura, you know.
But it's also, and we've seen it before.
They're clearly a couple, but she calls him by his surname.
Well, that's normal, actually.
That's not the 1st time that's happened.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I think probably Ian McShane gets called by his last name.
Um, but it is, it's definitely a thing that's happened before with a girlfriend's coming.
The kink.
Yeah, that's it.
Hello, man.
My hand.
Speaking of kinks, money's hands just can't keep away from those.
What is Marty doing this?
like with the hand movements all episode.
I mean, he always kind of does that.
I think he might be super self-conscious about Giancarlo just being in the studio.
And previer than him. perfect sense, Brandon.
All right.
So while the scene's on.
I hope you don't mind.
I'm going to station myself under the table if that's not.
Oh dear.
Who ordered the pepperoni?
Now, interesting.
They're definitely rolling their own here, aren't they?
I think they deliberately place Martin on the other side of the table for this scene.
So he couldn't block Jean-Parre.
Have you noticed, boys?
There is no eye contact between Giancarlo and Marty Landau.
They never lock eyes.
Martin won't, I, I, no, I, maybe there?
There's a moment.
Maybe there, but I can't see Junk.
He wants to kill him.
Oh my god.
You're stealing my show.
I've had your contract cancelled Well?
Yeah.
The language thing could have been a reason, but I'm not so sure about that story.
Maybe for this episode and because of Ray and Johnny Byrne, but he was cast for the whole season, so he would have passed the screen test for New York and for Lou Grade's people.
Okay.
Maybe it was another Italian actor was dubbed and Johnny is, because I've only read that from Johnny, so that's only one source.
It's interesting.
No, I've not read that anywhere else. okay But then again, why not?
But as you say, if he if he is dubbed, Robert's an amazing.
Where is his other hand?
You don't know.
Also, nipple.
Also, he's definitely having a fiddle under the table.
I'm quite busy down there, right?
Yes, you are.
And so close.
And even Nick's going, oh, steady on, mate.
And Paul's going, oh.
Oh my god.
That's awesome.
It's the pill sex scene in Barbarella again, Adam should be here.
There should actually be a fan on Barry every time he's in shot.
Every single time.
Like a moody blues video with Justin Watson.
You seem to be doing a really good job under that table.
You're doing your partner.
I've never had any complaints.
Notice the cheese grater in the Aurac.
I'm sure that's part of the queller machine.
Yes, I think it probably is.
Now, on the topic of, he's a guest character rather than a regular.
There is one version of a draft script where Laura refers to him as Paul at one point.
Oh, okay.
So I think I think possibly just at a very early stage, it may have been, oh, we could do this story about Paul.
Again.
And then we said, no, someone else.
Paul Mateo.
That looks so great.
I mean it's so terrifying.
And apparently these were done in camera with a silvered mirror.
Okay.
With a with sorry, a half silvered mirror.
But he's there.
He's there now.
Yeah, sorry, I meant I meant the shots where he's standing behind.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, like, but now he's...
Yeah.
So, and I believe that's Giancarlo, and there's an extra with his with his head down with his head down saying less teeth, Nathan.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, right.
Okay.
But I mean, it's, I mean, it's telling that this is just a, you know, like a circle, like, and that's, that's kind of what's happening in the conversation earlier on is, are there ghosts?
What's the difference between paranormal and supernatural?
you know, like is this a thing?
And that is the sort of thing.
What do you want your job?
I want my contract renewed.
Yes, for the children at home.
The double whose name is Val Musetti.
Val Musetti, and he does looks familiar.
But it's just, oh, it's really interesting, isn't it?
The whole disfigurement, shame thing that we don't do anymore.
I actually quite like the reaction of Carno and Nick.
They're poised.
They're not judging.
Sandra, hold it fricken in.
She can't help herself, but everyone else.
There's a kind of respect there.
Anna, you are one of us and what's happening.
Yeah.
I mean this is, you know, he's come back to take revenge against these people.
I love you.
And so obviously he is, I mean, you know, way back from, you know, Hector appearing in Aeneid too with the wounds all over himself from the thing.
The ghost comes back with the evidence of his death and that's what he's taking revenge for.
I don't know why his boss and his girlfriend have to suffer, but like whatever.
But I mean, the makeup is horrible.
You've had to work in a small room with colleagues for a long time.
But you know, being coming back, there's also a paradox element.
They have to die because they died before.
Yeah, this hasn't happened.
And there's no dialogue about that, are you?
of that makes sense. instead of woo-woo spiritual, but also time travel paradox.
And somehow there's a cut somewhere here.
There is.
And I've watched it 5 times.
Very good.
I couldn't spot it.
No, thank you, Ray Austin.
Oh my god.
Well, it's actually the editor's butt.
That's so horrible.
That's his disappointing O face again.
Actually, I just had a thought.
I wonder if, because we only saw him in profile.
I wonder if he runs around the back of a camera and that's someone else's hand.
Oh yeah, okay.
That's probably it.
In which case, still brilliant.
I love that.
I mean, the makeup is just truly horrifying.
And remember we saw it before when, you know, Brian Blessed got burned to a crisp and stuff like that kind of severe gore, body horror, fangoria sort of thing is the thing that this show does.
And I, like I, I like that.
I kind of appreciate that.
It works.
Because it's used sparingly.
Sure.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I agree.
So, um, now we're planning.
How would he look with a mo?
Come on.
So so we're organising, are we doing the thing in here?
Is that where...
They're going to kill him.
It will happen, but there's still more to come.
Oh, is that okay?
This is very slow.
It is.
There was time for the exposition scene.
Also, don't forget there would have been lots of ads.
Okay.
Well, actually, no one ad break because...
Part one and part two.
And so they are going to give him a drug, which is not called metrozine.
It's called Mesadrine.
Yeah.
There is a metrozine in another episode.
This is Mesadrine.
And it makes him violent and angry.
And you kind of think, well, why are we keeping that?
Do you think like, wait, we've got a lot of that?
Why do we have?
It's like the thing that Bones injects himself within city on the edge of forever.
It just makes him crazy.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And you know, it's the Elon Musk K-hole.
Yeah, that's right.
But you know what I say to that?
If you give someone who's not for diabetic insulin, you can kill them.
Yes.
Okay. notes to the gentle listener.
Yeah, yeah.
Now, here is, we're coming up on the bit where the explanation is cut.
And also there's a lovely bit coming up here where they talk about sedation, but because it's the subconscious, sedation won't work.
And I think that's a really clever... sci-fi.
And they talk about, is this the bit where they talk about the parts of the brain that talk to plants also are the points of which psychic phenomenon is mapped?
I think that was earlier on.
Okay.
I could be wrong though.
But there is something about the wavelength, which is linked to what plans are omitting and what he's omitting or what the ghosts have been.
Yeah, they just got on his monitor and that's when he talks about...
Ah, yes.
No, you're right.
So that was a part of this scene.
Yeah, so Victor's explanation that's cut out is because they have the wavelength, they can pretty much do a noise cancelling thing.
Okay.
Bell book and candle.
Yeah.
But you know what he says?
You need to reverse the polarity of the...
And he does.
He says it.
Johnny Byrne, you're naughty.
And the thing is, I think the reason they cut it out is it's such a simple explanation.
It's putting too much air in a balloon and something bad happens.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I actually watched them then watched it and went, does it work just being an energy field?
I'm like, yes, it actually does, in my opinion.
But for me, like the issue is like the plans are set up, but they don't go anywhere and it needs to be something to do with that.
And no one's commenting on the fact that he's being, it's, it's the, it's the scene at the end where we kind of go, what's this about?
And they kind of go, yeah, life and death.
Like, it's a thing.
Super, it's a rich tapestry, you know, uh, uh, in short, life is a land of contrasts, you know, like it's essentially nothing.
Yeah.
And I do actually have another opinion as to why they cut it out, but I'll explain that when we get to where we're the denouement.
Yeah, okay.
Because, because, you know, the scene with Ian McShane, where we're thinking about how this entity, you know, persuaded Ian McShane to kind of burn himself to a crisp in order that a new star should be born, like that's weird and mystical and strange and ridiculous, but there's more to it than what we get here, I think.
Yeah, that is fair.
And so he's brought some bottles of wine. for the party.
Is that right?
Yeah, yeah, it's picked up.
What's it got?
Now, he's got his Goonberg.
We've had a great idea here to set up a lethal zone around the thing.
That's got to turn out well, I think.
That was a good idea.
Here's the other reason I think the explanation was cut is just sending out like a reverse way, an inverted waveform does not create lasers of death for the physical body.
Like it's like, yep, I can understand why that gets rid of the spirit.
But it's like, we also need to kill off this guy.
So, okay, we're not going to fully explain what we're doing.
It's just lasers of death.
And breathing for the nippy buckles.
See, I was hoping to strapping nipples in.
All of all 3 of them.
I was hoping I was really hoping for another shot.
There's no way they didn't include that shot.
Like, why has he taken his shirt off?
It's just like, because the 3rd nipples are witch mark as well.
And like I just wonder whether they kind of went, oh, let's...
So upsetting because he looks so pretty.
Too pretty to die.
He looks so helpless and sort of... sedated, yeah.
That's why they put him in the harness chair.
It wasn't just...
It kind of looks like innocent in a way.
Yeah.
Well, he is innocent.
He did kill those 2 people, though.
Mind you, they were annoying.
They talk to him and kill him.
It's horrible.
Yeah.
But yes, he's not responsible for his action.
Nobody go into the lethal part of the road.
Yeah, yeah.
Just in case you were planning to go into the lethal part of...
Yeah, don't, don't, don't go into the lethal part of that room.
Yeah, that, and we're on Harpic alert.
They're not corkscrewed for your pleasure.
But, you know, this is the moment in the screening where I can imagine Jerry and Sylvia saying, um, hold on, if it's just cancelling out a waveform, why does it burn him?
Let's cut out that line.
Let's cut out that line and put on extra lines about the lethal area, which we're including for what reason?
Because no guest star is allowed to survive.
Yeah, I think so.
Except for that, except for that woman and her horrid baby who grow up to be Julian Glover.
And then they disappear.
It is in Marty's contract.
Dead, dead, dead.
No, he thought they were really going to kill Jen Carlo.
That was the only reason he agreed to look at him in that other scene.
Oh my god, look at him. isn't he beautiful?
Is that the startled photo?
Is that it?
Okay.
Not yet.
Yeah, he's gorgeous.
And, you know, I did think to myself as I was watching this, why couldn't they tell him the plan because of the subconscious because the ghost would know what they were doing.
Yes.
And I kind of wish there'd been dialogue for that because they do just kind of look like assholes.
Whereas if it's a matter of we can't tell him.
This is the man who came in and with a big gun and said, no, you're not all staying in heaven, having sex with lots of models for the rest of eternity.
You're coming back to this shithole.
I've got to mow up Catherine Shell.
That's right Can we blow up Catherine Shell?
I'm going to give Zenia Merton a neckache.
She'll never shut up about it. so good.
Here we go.
Yeah, there's so many great startled shots in this.
That's so shit, though.
You can see the director going, all right, John Carlo.
Now to the left.
Now to the right.
Lovely.
Love your work.
Yeah, being Ray Austin.
Ray Alston is probably in a chair opposite, doing the same movement.
Yeah, that's great.
Because he's a stuntman, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, the way the way he, like, yeah, the forced perspective and he just kind of comes out of him.
Yeah, yeah. pretty great.
But again, all that just in camera fading stuff.
It's awesome.
It's really terrific.
And yeah, I think I think what kind of sells this is it's like, um, Mateo realises he's the only one that can stop this.
Yeah, yeah.
No, it makes no sense.
I've got no idea what the fuck's happening.
Like, why is this happening?
What's going on?
And why is creating the ghost?
why does the ghost go away?
The noise cancelling headphones.
Well, it's yeah, but also I think it's like a time loop.
And this action closes the time loop.
Okay.
So he causes himself.
Yeah.
Yeah, but this event still hasn't happened.
No, I'm not...
No, it really makes no sense.
Yeah, like it would have been much more interesting if he'd made peace with his darker side and changed times.
Well, again, if it had been about something, if we decided this episode would be about a thing.
You know, just a bunch of crazy crap that happened.
These darker parts of his personality and that he killed these people and he has to atone for it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yes, exactly right.
Yeah, yeah.
There's some violence in him that comes out.
Yeah, version.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And see, that's that's kind of what we get in the last sunset because Paul has to be there next week.
We have to bring him back from the brink of madness.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, she's so fucking weird, did you see?
Why is she so useless?
Stupid boy, bro.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I hate cold pizza.
No, it's awesome.
It's the best thing that you possibly have for breakfast.
Look, oh, Barbara, for God's sake.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, that's the orange... the shitty special thing.
And it does look like it's going into him.
I don't understand.
You just have to crossfade before.
And why not just have him sort of fade out and have the other one of him kind of glowing slightly right away?
Why the wibbly wobbly?
Like they should have done with John Purwee.
Well I think they're just excited about being able to do that.
They don't often know. the Disney Fairy Dust in the telly movie.
Oh no. touching him now he's dead.
No, he's dead.
I succeeded.
He is gone.
I succeeded. not pretty.
Oh, come on, Barbara.
You shocked by that?
Have you watched television before?
Yeah exactly.
So the death is caused by the ghosty thing.
And his makeup is actually caused by the lethal.
That we placed it around the chair. type of fair.
Because we wanted to kill and now we're very relaxed about it all.
You mustn't blame yourself, John.
Just because you did it.
By the way, I made cookies.
You want some cold pizza?
They do.
Got the munchies now, John.
Mateo was burning precise.
This is, like, it was poorly ordained.
It was not.
Yeah.
See, this is the moment where I think it's probably time to cancel this show and it plays it with one in a much smaller set where a lot of people are wearing nylon gorilla costumes.
Well, you know, give them a few episodes and they will.
Well, this is the point.
Do you feel post-production was a month after it, February 75.
Do you think that this was one of the scenes that was done afterwards, because Jerry said, Johnny?
Yes.
Yeah, no, no.
Life and death still the big questions, but that's really it.
I've got nothing Yeah, they are.
They're like, what's happening here?
We can't even come up with words for them to say at this point.
They're just looking at each other until the moon goes away.
Barbara's just saying, I'm still quite socially awkward.
Tag It's very beautiful.
Oh, it stunning.
It has also occurred to me that the 1st half.
The Star Trek writer's room watched before writing realm of fear.
And the 2nd half they watched before writing Times Squared.
Yes, they're both really terrible episodes.
No, Times Square is brilliant if it then leads into Q-Hoo.
Like it's supposed to.
Yeah, yeah.
And actually, I have a soft spot for realm of fear because it's one that I watched when I was like 10 years old.
No, I get that.
It is fun and it's got what's his face in it.
Special note to David Lane, who, of course, was principal, creative director, whatever, on Cat Weasel.
I think the reason that worked is because of the editing and David Lane was edited.
It's, I mean, it is stunningly beautifully done.
The music is brilliant.
It looks as incredible as anything in this show, you know, in this 1st season.
And I think Ray Austin directs 7 episodes this season.
Yeah, but he directs 9 in all.
He does direct some season 2 episodes.
So he is important.
Like, that's nearly a quarter of the run.
Yeah, and then over on the new Avengers, he directs, I think, 9 as well.
Right, okay.
And then is...
He does, you're right.
And then is consulting producer for the Canadian episodes because Brian Clemons doesn't go over.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Yeah, he's really something.
I mean, he does appear on camera, doesn't he?
We've talked about him before.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
And of course, Val Massetti was one of his old Avengers, um, cohort because Val was a stunt and fighty person in the Kathy Gale era. fighty, fighty.
It's true, he was.
And are we watching?
There's some special features and photos and stuff and particularly Johnny Byrne saying how insane.
Oh, of Nipple Phantasmagoria.
Well, so what do you think?
Tismagoria.
Pantipagoria.
Yeah, okay.
I think we can wrap up.
Did they model Victor's hair on Johnny Byrne, do you think?
No, no.
Victor's got much better hair than Johnny Burn.
Johnny Byrne still like had a full head of hair up to about 2000.
And even here, which is, it's a fair amount of hair.
It's a fair amount of hair.
More than any of us, yeah.
It's about the same hair as when he was stalked.
More than Sophie Aldred through the streets of Amsterdam.
Gosh, that's a weird documentary.
All right.
I think we'll finish up then in that case, unless anyone has any pressing final remarks.
Do right in, dear listener, with your thoughts and complaints.
And please do come on, Nick Tate.
Yeah, come on, Nick.
I beg your pardon.
That is why he's not coming on the phone.
Please do come on, comma.
Nick Nick Tate.
Yeah, I realised, as I said, Tate is like, that could be misconstrued.
Hopefully no one, never mind.
There's COVID Lane, yeah.
There's David.
Yeah.
So we do have a thing to plug, I think, don't we?
Yes, so over on the three-handed game.
We've released our 1st hour interview with the wonderful Annette Andre and our 1st commentary on her Avengers episode, Mandrake.
So listen to it. actually really good.
No, just of course, unlike this one.
It's full of fact.
Yes. into that kind of thing.
Yes.
And a hat made out of 100% Muppet tweet side.
Brilliant.
It's such a good episode.
Yes, it really is. can't go wrong.
John Le Measurer, Philip Locke.
Madge Ryan, Jackie Pello, the all in wrestler. who is the who is the person that honour Blackman does actually knock out on screen.
7.5 minutes and he's a professional restaurant.
She did him in.
Really?
in real life.
Yeah, she really did.
Wow.
So she was meant to she was meant to fake kick him in the face and she really kicked him in the face.
I'm having a day.
Halfway through the fight.
So they had to finish the fight and at the end of the fight, she's meant to knock him into an open grave and she did so.
And when he went into the open grave he lost consciousness.
Wow.
And so, I'm not coming out.
It's then the ladies hitting me. knocking 7 shades of shit out.
But that's the thing.
That was the secret.
It's then, all right, cut lovies and honour collapses by the side of the grave.
Oh my god, I'll never fight again. killed him.
Yeah.
And they just superglued the cut on his head and made the rest of the episode.
Ah, that's brilliant.
That's brilliant.
All right.
So there will be links in the show notes, I think.
No, I'm going to cut that because they never are.
Just search for the three-handed game wherever you get your podcast.
Excellent, brilliant.
All right.
Well, in that case, all that remains is for me to say, until next time, remember that sometimes it's simpler and safer just not to set up a lethal area.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
My 3rd nipple is tingling.
Good night.
So is mine.
I'll like the alligator clips back at the end.
Zap.
Zap zap.